---
title: Why Drop Ruby for Haskell?
---

> This is not a post convincing anyone who uses Ruby to drop it and use Haskell. This post only applies to me and more than likely only applies to me. I'm a very odd individual, I can happily admit.

I was pretty successful writing Ruby code. Well, I wasn't in SF making the "big bucks" as a Rails developer, but I certainly enjoyed myself with the little I was doing. When I first started I felt the sky was the limit. Ruby was a language that pushed simplicity. I likes that. Rails was just extra bacon on an already good baconator (gah damn thats a good analogy). There was coincidentally a meetup group in Champaign. I live in Springfield, IL so I felt the hour drive was worth it. I communicated with MANY developers to learn more, and I tried my best to contribute. Being a Rubyist, as I've said on twitter, it's the equivalent to being a hippie at woodstock. Everyone loves what they're doing, and when they see someone in need, they go out of their way to help. They love to create resources that make building a breeze. To me, productity and elegance are the mindset of the Rubyist.

So why drop Ruby? Well I still like Ruby, I just feel bored writing it. And writing OO code in general. (Yes, I know how that sounds). Despite how petty a reason that is, it is what it is. Yeah Ruby has some Functional capabilities, but it ain't Haskell. Doesn't have that Lambda loving to it. Most importantly, I'm SOOO bored of writing web applications. With the infestation of new rails developers (from bookcamps, etc), I felt web development was getting crowded. You may argue were in an ever growing field, there is no overcrowding. I may agree with you, but again, it's really just flat out boring. Also, I felt like building web apps wasn't making me a better programmer.

One may think "But to drop everything and pick up Haskell and other Functional Languages? Who the fuck wants a haskell programmer? You can find a job writing ruby anywhere". Yeah, I've thought of that. Might be true. But I'm a very odd individual I can happily admit. The money thing doesn't phase me. I could live in a cave or on a farm reading Haskell Programming from First Principles (and other books) the rest of my life and be completely contempt with that. I genuinely don't think the world was meant to run on money, but thats a post for another day. But if I miraculously happen to get hired writing haskell or in another language in my arsenal I enjoy, then so be it. I'd rather do something and contribute to what I love most. I love haskell and functional programming.